Water Service FAQ
Updated: Dec 19, 2024
What should I do if my water is discolored or has an unusual taste or odor?
You can always report water quality issues by calling Customer Care and Billing at 919-996-3245.  If a house is unoccupied for several weeks, this can result in discolored water when the water is first turned on, but it should clear up in a few minutes or less.  The same is true of a seldom used bathroom.  It is also recommended that you check the condition of your hot water heater, as old or poorly maintained water heaters can accumulate rust and sediment and cause water quality issues.  
Why does my water have a chlorine taste and/or smell to it?
Every year during the month of March, we switch the disinfection process to use only chlorine.  Normally we use chloramine disinfection, which has no taste or odor associated with it.  But periodically we are required to switch to only chlorine disinfection to properly control microbial growth within the water distribution system.  The water remains safe to drink, however you can fill a pitcher with tap water and let it sit for several hours in the refrigerator and this will allow for the chlorine taste and odor to dissipate. 
Why does the water pressure drop?
Unless there is a water main break near your house, the water pressure should be adequate and not vary in a noticeable way.  The most common cause for unusually low water pressure is a faulty pressure reducer valve (PRV), which is usually located on customer side of the water meter box.  A PRV can be replaced by a plumber.
How do I report a water main break?
To report a water main break: Call Customer Care and Billing at 919-996-3245 (24 hours a day, seven days a week). 
Note: Raleigh Water is responsible for breaks in water and sewer mains in the street, but the property owner is responsible for breaks on private property.
Water Main Break Information 
Where does my drinking water come from?
Your drinking water travels a complicated path before arriving at your home or business. Learn more about the process.
Where can I find water quality information?
Water quality reports are available on our reports page: Water Quality
How do I fill a swimming pool?
Swimming pools may be filled by two methods:
Use your residential water connection. You will be charged for water and sewer services since the water would go through your meter. Effective July 1, 2020, residential customers may request an adjustment for the excess sewer portion of these charges.  Contact Customer Care & Billing for more details.
Rent a water hydrant. There is a $500 refundable deposit with a $10 per day associated fee. For requirements and information regarding renting a hydrant, please call Customer Care and Billing at 919-996-3245
Please remember that all water used from the public system must be metered except in the case of fire emergencies. Water used from the City's tap system without metering is a violation of the City Code and can result in the fine of a maximum of $500 a day plus water usage.
